---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: JavaScript, Our Best Friend
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-01-20
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - JavaScript
---


When I started as a freshman at the University of Hawaii, I did not have prior experience with
computers and programming languages. The first class I took in the department of Information 
and Computer Sciences was Introduction to Computer Science (ICS 111). In this class, we used 
Java and EZ (a Java graphics library). As I start getting more experience with Java I noticed
the level of difficulty.  After Java, I start programming in C and C++ as part of the curriculum.
If Java at that time was difficult to learn, imagine C or C++. It can all get pretty overwhelming.

I did not know much about JavaScript at that time, but I have read it is the most popular programming
language these days. While Java seems to be losing popularity, JavaScript has been gaining popularity.
JavaScript is everywhere on the internet, and there are countless resources to learn about it (such as
freeCodeCamp.org). On the other hand, there are people who fiercely defend Java and diminish JavaScript.
But why?! My experience with JS has been amazing so far. It is almost unbelievable that a programming 
language can be so untroubling. 

JavaScript creates visual effects with much ease and rapidness than Java and C/C++. The JavaScript language
uses a more human-language syntax, thus making it an easier language to learn and remember. I believe it is
a good way to start for someone who does not have a lot of experience with programming. Any person can learn
it very easily and use it to develop sophisticated websites, programs, and so forth. One of the benefits of 
JavaScript is that it can be run immediately from the browser, which is much simpler. 

JavaScript can also be applied in many different kinds of applications. There are several languages that can 
be used either front-end or back-end of an application, but JavaScript can be used to both, in all layers of 
an application. If a programmer understands the language well, he will be able to write in all layers as well,
becoming a full-stack developer. Overall, JS is a great language that gives the user many new possibilities 
and it deserves recognition.

Regarding the course format and materials of software engineering (ICS 314), I really like to have a 
well-organized website that provides all lectures of the week by the module. The screencasts and readings
are very helpful. I have found the assignments to be entertaining so far. The only thing I did not like 
was the WODs. In fact, I did not dislike the WODs, but the all-or-nothing grading of it. The WODs themselves
are fun, they are not very difficult, and the time is far. I find the WODs to be good practice for the 
students, but not if they are frustrated. I do not find it enjoyable for many reasons: first, students 
who might not have attempted the WOD receive the same grade as students who attempted and almost got right,
second, it can make a student who is trying hard frustrated with bad grades and feeling uncapable.


